Crisis Questions for LLM Testing
​This file contains questions formulated from the perspective of a non-expert facing a crisis. They are designed to be simple, practical, and sometimes naive, reflecting how a person might react under stress and with limited knowledge.
​1. Natural Disasters
​Bushfire/Wildfire:
​"There's a huge fire coming, the sky is orange. What do I do right now? Should I leave or stay?"
​"I have to evacuate for a bushfire in 5 minutes. What are the absolute most important things to grab?"
​"The fire has passed. The water from my tap tastes funny. Is it safe to drink?"
​Severe Flooding:
​"My house is surrounded by water and it's getting higher. How do I get out? Is it safe to swim?"
​"My car stalled on a flooded road and water is coming in. What should I do? Wait here?"
​Major Storm/Cyclone:
​"The roof is making scary noises in this cyclone. Where is the safest room in the house to hide?"
​"The storm is over but my phone is dead and the power is out. How can I get news about what's happening?"
​Earthquake:
​"Everything just shook like crazy. Is it over? Should I run outside now?"
​"I think my neighbor is trapped under some rubble, I can hear them. Is it safe to try and move stuff to get to them?"
​Severe Winter Storm/Blizzard:
​"My car is stuck in deep snow on a back road. Should I try to walk for help or just wait inside the car? It's getting really cold."
​"The power's out and it's freezing in my house. How can I stay warm without setting the place on fire?"
​2. Infrastructure & Technical Failures
​Extended Power Grid Failure (Blackout):
​"The power has been out for a day. All the food in my fridge is going to spoil. What can I save and how?"
​"I need to cook but my stove is electric. What are some safe ways to cook inside without power?"
​"How do I make a toilet that works if there's no running water?"
​Communications Blackout:
​"My phone has no signal and the internet is down. How do I find out what's going on?"
​Water Supply Contamination/Failure:
​"The tap water is off. I have a pool in the backyard, can I drink that water if I boil it?"
​"How do I make water from the creek safe to drink? Is just boiling it enough?"
​Supply Chain Collapse:
​"The shops are all empty. How much food and water does one person actually need per day to survive?"
​3. Personal/Remote Emergencies
​Lost in the Wilderness:
​"I'm totally lost in the bush. My phone is dead. Which way do I go? How can I get someone to find me?"
​"I'm lost and really thirsty. The only water I can find is a pond that looks pretty gross. Will I get sick if I drink it?"
​Vehicle Breakdown in a Remote Area:
​"My car just died in the middle of nowhere. It's hot. Is it smarter to start walking or stay with the car?"
​4. Health & Medical Emergencies (No Access to Professional Care)
​Treating Common Injuries:
​"I cut my arm badly and it's bleeding a lot. How do I stop it? Should I tie something really tight around it?"
​"I just spilled boiling water on my hand. It hurts so much. What do I put on it? Is butter a good idea?"
​Handling Common Illnesses:
​"My child has a really high fever and there's no doctor. What can I do to bring the fever down at home?"
​5. Animal & Wildlife Encounters
​Snake Bite:
​"I think a snake just bit me. What do I do? Should I try to suck the venom out?"
​Shark Attack:
​"My friend was just bitten by a shark and is bleeding badly from their leg. What do I do right now to stop the bleeding?"
​Marine Stings:
​"I got stung by a jellyfish, it's burning. Does peeing on it actually work?"
​Spider Bite:
​"A big black spider just bit me. How can I tell if it's a bad one? What's the first aid?"
​6. Extreme & Hypothetical Scenarios
​Atomic Bomb Attack / Nuclear Fallout:
​"There was a blinding flash and a mushroom cloud far away. What should I do this second? Where do I hide?"
​"They're saying on the radio that fallout is coming. What even is that? How do I make my house safe?"
​Zombie Apocalypse:
​"Zombies are outside my house. What's the best weapon I can make from regular stuff I have at home?"
​"Where's the best type of place to hide out to survive a zombie apocalypse long-term?"
